Econometrics

Q1. What is an R-square statistic?
A1. An R-square statistic is a measure of goodness-of-fit, also known as the coefficient of determination. It is the proportion of
    variability in a data set that is accounted for by the chosen model. In a simple linear regression (y = mx + b), the R-square
    statistic is the percentage of variability in 'y' that can be explained by movements in 'x'. Note that in a linear regression,
    R-square equals the square of the sample correlation coefficient between the outcomes(y) and their predicted values, and can be
    thought of as a percentage from 1 to 100.

Q2. What is a random walk? Is it stationary or non-stationary?
A2. A random walk is a path that consists of taking successive random steps. Often, the "steps" taken by a stock price are assumed
    to follow a random walk. Random walks are not stationary, i.e., where you "are" in the walk depends on where you were immediately
    prior to your last step. Non-stationary behaviors can include trends, cycles, random walks or combining of the three. Note that
    while non-stationary data cannnot be modeled or forecasted, the data can usually be transformed so that they can be modeled.
    
    In a pure random walk(Yt = Yt-1 + et), the value or location at time t will be equal to the last period value plus a stochastic
    (non-systematic) component that is a white noise, which means et is independently and identically distributed with mean of 0 and
    variance to σ^2. The random walk is a non-mean reverting process that can move away from the mean either in a positive or negative
    direction. Put another way, the means, variances and co-variances of the walk change over time. Another characteristic of a random
    walk is that the variance evolves over time and goes to infinity as time goes to infinity; therefore, a random walk cannot be
    predicted.

Q3. What happens if you create a regression based on 2 variables that each are continuously increasing with time?
A3. If you attempt to model two series that are both time-dependent(say, consumption and income), you will get a spurious regression,
    i.e., a model with a high R-square, but poor predictive properties. This is because both series are non-stationary. With non-s
    stationary variables, one needs to transform them into stationary series; the easiest way to do this is by defferencing, or looking
    at changes in the series. Changes in a non-stationary series are usually stationary.
    
    What to do if two series are non-stationary: Rather than differencing each series, one may be able to create a better model by
    finding a conintegrating relationship. With cointegration, the aim is to detect any common stochastic trends in the underlying
    data; whereas the two series may not be stationary, the difference between two non-stationary series may itself, be stationary.

Q4. If I have a regression between X and Y, what test statistics should I look at to determine whether I have a good model?
A4. (1) R-square: Explain how much of the movement in the independent variable can be explained by the dependent variables chosen.
    (2) t-Statistic: In a least squares regression, the t-statistic is the estimated regression coefficient of a given independent
                     variable divided by its standard error. If the t-statistic is more than 2(i.e., the coefficient is at least twice
                     as large as the standard error), one can conclude that the variable in question has a significant impact on the
                     dependent variable.
    (3) F-Test: In a regression model, the F-test allows one to compare the null hypothesis.
                H0: All non-constant coefficients in the regression equation are zero.
                H1: At least one of the non-constant coefficients in the regression equation is non-zero.
                The F-test tests the joint explanatory power of the variables, while the t tests test their explanatory power
                individually. One rejects the null hypothesis when the F statistic is greater than its critical value.         
    (4) Durbin-Waston statistic: the d statistic measures the presence of autocorrelation in the residuals. The value of d always lies
                                 between 0 and 4. A value of 2 indicates no autocorrelation. If the Durbin-Waston statistic is
                                 substantially less than 2, there is evidence of positive serial correlation.
    (5) Akaike Information Criterion: From among a set of models, the AIC suggests the preferred model as the one with the minimum
                                      AIC value. The AIC = 2k - 2 * ln(L) where k is the number of parameters in the statistical
                                      model, and L is the maximized value of the likelihood function for the estimated model. The
                                      AIC rewards goodness of fit, but also includes a penalty that is an increasing function of the
                                      number of estimated parameters, which discourages overfitting.

Q5. If I have data from 1992-2012, what's the danger if I build a model forecasting values in 2012 using all of the historical data?
A5. Fitting a model with all available data is called in-sample testing. A model can be constructed that may perform exceptionally
    well during a selected period of history, but structural changes over time may mean that a model that worked well in the past
    may not work well in the future. Rather than back-testing a model using in-sample data, create a model that uses some historical
    data and test how well the model works when applied to data that wasn't used to construct the model. While back-testing can provide
    valuable information regarding a model's potential, back-testing alone often produces deceptive results.

Q6. Why should I care about residuals in a regression?
A6. If a plot of residuals versus time does not look like white noise, the model is likely misspecified. Correlation of residuals is
    known as autocorrelation, and can be checked by calculating the Durbin-Watson statistic. With autocorrelation of residuals, the
    estimated regression coefficients are still unbiased but many no longer have the minimum variance among all unbiased estimates
    (they are inefficient); moreover, confidence intervals may be underestimated and estimation of the test statistics for the F-test
    (and so significance) may also be underestimated, potentially leading to the conclusion that the set of explanatory variables is
    not significant as a whole.
   
