1. Mathematical Finance Topics

Q1: What is Black-Scholes(B-S)? Walk me through the derivation.
A1: B-S is a mathematical formula that is used to determine the price of a European call option(or European put option)
    on a fiancial instrument. The model assumes that asset price movements follow geometric Brownian motion with constant
    drift and volatility. Brownian motion originally referred to the microscopic motions of a small particle floating in
    a liquid; if stock prices move in a similar way, then the random increments or price changes will be normally distributed
    with an infinitesimal variance.
    
    Assume that the asset price S follows the following process:
    dS = μS dt + σS dW, where μ and σ are constant, t stands for time, and W is a winer process.
    
    The basis of Black-Scholes is Ito's Lemma, which explains the process of stochastic behavior. If a variable x follows an
    Ito process(dx = a(x, t) + b(x, t)dW) then Ito's Lemma shows that a function G, of x and t, follows the process.
    
    If f is the price of a call option on stock S, and f is a function of S and t, then via Ito's lemma:
    (1) df = (df/dS * μS + df/dt + 0.5 * d2f / ds2 * σ^2 * S^2)dt + (df/ds * σS)dWt
    
    The above formula is key to the derivation of the B-S equation, which incorporates the constant price variation(volatility)
    of the stock, the time value of money, the option's strike price and the option's time to expiry. Black-Scholes for a non-
    dividend paying stock depends on the construction of a riskless portfolio, where positions are taken in bonds(cash), the
    underlying stock and options. If one holds -1 units(i.e., sold short one unit) of a derivative f plus df/ds shares, the
    change in the value of this portfolio π over time Δt is equal to:
    (2) Δπ = -Δf + df/dS * ΔS
    
    If the stock price can be modeled as above:
    (3) dS = μSdt + σSdWt
    
    then via Ito's Lemma
    (4) Δπ = (-df/dt - 0.5 * d2f/dS2 * σ^2 * S^2) * Δt
    
    Notice how the above equation(the change in the portfolio value)does not involve dW. During time increment Δt, the portfolio
    is not subject to random movement-it must earn the riskless rate.
    (5) Δπ = rπΔt
    
    Combined the above equations:
    (df/dt + rSdf/dS + 0.5 * σ^2 * S^2 * d2f/dS2) = rf
    This is called Black-Scholes equation.
    
Q2: What are the assumptions made in Black-Scholes?
A2: (1) There is no arbitrage opportunity(i.e., there is no way to make a riskless profit).
    (2) It is possible to borrow and lend cash at the same constant risk-free interest rate.
    (3) It is possible to buy and sell stocks in any amount(including fractional amounts); there is no restraint on short selling.
    (4) There are no transaction costs(the market is frictionless).
    (5) Stock prices follow geometric Brownian motion with constant drift and constant volatility.
    Note: The original B-S equation assumed no dividend payments. However, dividends can be taken into account by subtracting
          them from the risk-free rate, assuming that both the dividend and the risk-free rate are continuously compounding.
      
Q3: What are the "Greeks" in Black-Scholes? What are vanna and volga?
A3: The "Greeks" are the model outputs from Black-Scholes, known as Greeks due to their mathematical notation with Greek letters.
    They provide information about the sensitivity of outputs of the model to changes in the inputs into the model.
    (1)Delta: Measures the rate of change in the option value with respect to changes in the underlying asset's price(the first
              derivative of the option price with respect to the underying price). It loosely equals the probability that the 
              option finishes in-the-money. Delta for a call ranges from 0 to 1, and from -1 to 0 for puts.
    (2)Gamma: Measures the rate of change of the option delta with respect to the change in the underlying asset price(the second
              derivative of the option price with respect to the underlying price). Even if the underlying asset price remains
              unchanged, the option delta for an in-the-money option increases as expiration nears; the opposite is true for an
              out-of-the-money. The gamma of an option indicates how the delta of an option will change for a one-point move in
              the underlying asset. In other words, the Gamma shows the option delta's sensitivity to market price changes.
              Gamma is important for maintaining a delta neutral position.
    (3)Vega: Measures the sensitivity of the option to changes in implied volatility. It equals the first derivative of the option
             price with respect to the volatility of the underlying asset. Vega is typically expressed as the amount of money per
             underlying share that the option's value will gain or lose as volatility rises of falls by 1%.

Q4: What is delta hedging? Are these scenarios where it's not profitable?
A4: 

Q5: What is realized volatility and how is it calculated?
A5:

Q6: How is realized volatility different from implied volatility?
A6:

Q7: How much should I pay for an option when the future volatility of the underlying is zero?
A7:

Q8: What is a variance swap?
A8: 

Q9: How is a forward FX rate calculated?
A9:

Q10: What is the difference between a forward contract and a futures contract?
     Under what cases are the prices of the two contracts the same?
A10: 
