1. Types of Quantitative Hedge Fund Trading Startegies

The strategies may focus on equities, fixed income or other asset classes,
although rarely would a Quant Hedge Fund be involved in a long-only strategy of individual stock-picking on an unhedged basis.
Many CTAs or "commodity Trading Advisors" also would be considered Quant Hedge Funds,
given their role in buying or selling contracts, options on futures, or retail off-exchange forex contracts.

(1) Global Macro: Focus on macroeconomic enviroment, often concentrates on currencies or major interest-rate moves.
(2) Emerging Markets: Invests in the debt or equity(and less frequently, FX) of emerging markest.
                      Markets are typically characterized by their relative lack of transparency and liquidity in addition
                      to an inability to find viable derivatives contracts for hedging.
(3) Equity Market Neutral: Trades pairs of shares - buying one and selling another - and therefore is typically neutral
                           to market direction(i.e., employs a beta of zero). Also called statistical arbitrage. May also
                           involve trading single stocks versus an index or an Exchange-Traded Fund(ETF) against an index.
(4) Convertible Arbitrage: Targets pricing anomalies between convertible bonds and the underlying shares and options on shares.
(5) Fixed Income Arbitrage: Exploits anomalies between related bonds, often with high leverage.
(6) Event-Driven: Trades based on anticipated corporate events, such as anticipated merger or take-over activity or bankruptcy
                  filing. Also called risk arbitrage.

2. Relative Value Trading vs. Directional Trading

Relative Value strategies attempt to capitalize on predictable pricing relationships(often mean-reverting relationships)
between multiple assets, for example, the relationship between short-dated US Treasury Bill yields vs. long-dated US Treasury Bond 
yeilds in the implied volatility in two different option contracts.

Common examples of Relative Value strategies include placing relative bets(i.e., buying one asset and selling another)
on assets whose prices are closely linked.

(1) Government securities of two different countries.
(2) Government securities of two different lengths to maturity.
(3) Corporate vs. mortgage bond securities.
(4) The differential in implied volatility between two derivatives.
(5) Equity prices vs. bond prices for a corporate bond issuer.
(6) Corporate bond yield spreads vs. Credit Default Swap(CDs) spreads.

There are three very important and commonly used Relative Value strategies to be aware of:
(1) Statistical Arbitrage:
Trading a mean-reverting trend of the values of similar baskets of assests based on historical trading relationships.
One common form of Statistical Arbitrage, or "Stat Arb", trading, is known as Equity Market Neutral trading. In this
strategy, two baskets of equities are chosen(one "long" bakset and one "short" basket), with the goal that the relative
weights of the two baksets leave the fund with zero net exposure to various risk factors(industry, geography, sector, etc.)
Stat Arb also could involve the trading of an index a similarly matched ETF, or an index versus a single company's stock.
(2) Convertible Arbitrage:
Purchasing of convertible bonds issues by a company and simultaneously selling the same company's stock, with the idea being
that should the stock of a given company decline, the profit from the short position will more than offest any loss on the
convertible bond position, given the convertible bond's value as a fixed-income instrument. Similarly, in any upward price
move of the common stock, the fund can profit from the conversion of its convertible bonds into stock, selling that stock
at market value by an amount that exceeds any losses on its short position.
(3) Fixed Income Arbitrage
Trading fixed income securities in developed bond markets to exploit perceived relative interest rate anomalies. Fixed Income
Arbitrage positions can use government bonds, interest rate swaps, and interest rate futures. One popular example of this
style of trading in fixed income arbitrage is the "basis trade", in which one sells(buys) Treasury futures, and buys(sells)
a corresponding amount of the potential deliverable bond. Here, one is taking a view on the difference between the spot
price of a bond and the adjusted future's contract price(futures price * conversion factor) and trading the pairs of assets
accordingly.

Directional strategies, meanwhile, typically build on trend-following or other pattern-based paths suggestive of upward
or downward momentum for a security or set of securities(for example, betting that long-dated US Treasury Bond yields will
increase or that implied volatility will decline.)

Directional trading will often incorporate some aspects of Technical Analysis or "charting." This involves predicting the direction
the direction of prices through the study of past prices and volume market data. The "direction" being traded can be that of
an asset itself(momentum in equity prices, for example, or the euro/U.S. dollar exchagne rate) or a factor that directly affects
the asset price itself(for example, implie volatility for options or interest rates for government bonds).
Technical trading may also comprise the use of moving averages, bands around the historical standard deviation of prices,
support and resistance level, and rates of change. Typically, technical indicators would not constitute the sole basis for a 
Quantitative Hedge Fund's investment strategy; They employ many additional factors over and above historical price and
volume information. In other words, they employ Directional trading strategies generally have overall quantitative strategies
that are much more sophisticated than general Technical Analysis.

3. Managed Volatility
Managed Volatility stategies use futures and forward contracts to focus on generating low, but stable, LIBOR-plus absolute returns,
increasing or decreasing the number of contracts dynamically as the underlying volatilities of the stock, bond and the other
markets shift. Managed Volatility Strategies have gained in popularity in recent years due to the recent instability of both
stock and bond markets.
