1. The trick to successfully obtaining a role with those firms lies in securing an initial interview, and impressing a hiring manager
   with the depth of  your knowledge and interest in quantitative methods and modeling.

2. Consider contacting someone who was quoted in an article in the Wall Street Journal, on Bloomberg, or in a magazine like Institutional
   Investor or Absolute Return + Alpha. Most people will be flattered to be noticed in the press and to have you reach out to them.

3. A good cover letter will detail you quantitative skills and past history by referencing prior work projects or college assignments, and
   importantly, explain how this background may be relevant for any work you might do at the firm.
   
4. Use LinkedIn, industry publications and financial news sites to search for intermediate-to-senior level employees, particularly if you 
   share a common connection with them (fellow college or high school alumni, for example).
   
5. Almost all interview questions will relate in some form to mathematics, statistics, econometrics or programming.

6. Before an interview, study a company's website and try to read as many articles as you can about the firm. Distinguish yourself by
   bringing research to the table-either your own(in the form of a class project or graduate thesis) or others (i.e., research published
   in the academic press that you have read and are familiar with.)

7. Popular academic journals, which may be available online thorugh your alma mater's online library, include the following:
   (1) Journal of Portfolio Management
   (2) Journal of Quantitative Finance
   (3) Financial Analysts Journal
   (4) Journal of Investment Management 
   (5) The journal of Investing
   
8. Some key concepts:
   (1) The derivation of the Black-Scholes option pricing formula.
   (2) An understanding of the Black-Scholes model's sensitivity outputs(Greek).
   (3) The difference between futures and forward contracts.
   (4) The calculation of historical volatility and how it differs from implied volatility.
